4.2.2 List of documents and information

The participants will be asked to submit the following documents and information:

1. Profit and loss account — approved by the management of the entity, clearly indicating the amounts of turnover from sales of goods and services, operating income, staff, depreciation, amortization costs, net operating result and interest expenses. If this information is not indicated in the profit and loss account or in the explanatory notes it must be provided in the form of a self- declaration.

2. Balance sheet statement — approved by the management, clearly indicating the nature and the maturity (i.e. below or above one year) of receivables and other current assets, grants, provisions and debts. If this information is not indicated in the balance sheet or in the explanatory notes it must be provided in the form of a self-declaration.

3. Explanatory notes and/or annexes that form part of the above financial statements (if available).

4. External audit report or self-declaration

Participants requesting a grant amount of above 750 000 EUR (for action grants) or above 100 000 EUR (for operating grants) must provide:

— an statutory audit report issued by an approved/certified external auditor if: — such a report is available or — a statutory audit is required under EU or national law or

— an statutory audit report issued by an approved/certified external auditor if:

— a declaration on the validity of the accounts* (self-declaration), signed by the legal representative of the entity, which certifies the validity of the accounts.

4) The documents provided must cover the last two closed financial years. The most recent year must have been closed within the last 18 months.

Exceptions are allowed for:

— start-up companies without closed annual accounts which provide prospective data (business plan) for one year only — recently created entities which have closed annual accounts for one year only. These entities will be assessed based on the documents for the sole closed financial year

A single financial document containing comparative data of the annual accounts of both years under assessment will be accepted. The same applies to an external audit report covering the two financial years.

If some (or all) of the documents have already been provided for the financial years in question (i.e. uploaded in the Participant Register), the participant does not need to submit them again.

The audit report must include:

— the clear mandate and scope of the audit — the responsibilities of the management and the auditor — the way in which the audit is carried out — the auditor’s opinion, including a reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free of material misstatement.

All documents must be provided simultaneously (profit and loss account, balance sheet, audit report/self-declaration, etc).

No audit report/self-declaration is needed for entities participating in tender procedures, for natural persons and entities without closed accounts.

Specific cases

“ Subsidiaries without own financial statements — Subsidiaries which do not prepare their own financial statements may provide the consolidated accounts and the audit report/self-declaration of the parent company/group they belong to under the following conditions:

— the entity is exempt under national law from statutory audits — only consolidated statements of the parent company/group the entity belongs to are available

and

— the parent company assumes joint liability for all the debts of the entity (— all conditions must be fulfilled).

In such cases, participants will be requested to provide additional documents to prove these conditions.

« Parent companies — Parent companies which are exempt under national law from publishing individual (i.e. non-consolidated) financial statements will be requested to provide a dated and signed by the management simplified summary of their non-consolidated profit and loss statement and balance sheet.

These simplified accounts must respect either the minimum reporting requirements set out in the national accounting law or Annexes III, IV, V and VI of Directive 2013/34° (for the balance sheet, aggregate information limited to the headings preceded by letters and roman numerals is sufficient).

If the provided financial information is not sufficiently clear, the Central Validation Service may contact participants for further clarifications.

« Newly established enterprises that have not yet closed accounts — Must provide estimated financial data (i.e. a business plan or a similar document including financial projections on current and non-current assets, own capital, current and non- current liabilities, turnover, operating and financial income and charges).

The financial data must respect either the minimum reporting requirements set out in the national accounting law or to Annexes III, IV, V and VI of EU Directive 2013/34 (for the balance sheet, aggregate information limited to the headings preceded by letters and roman numerals is sufficient).

«> Natural persons engaged in an economic activity who do not prepare financial statements in relation to their business activities — Are requested to provide:

— the annual income tax declaration containing details on the revenues and expenses from business activity

— asigned declaration of patrimony, including:

— fixed patrimony (e.g. land, tenement, hereditament, medium/long-term deposits (more than one year), stock options that cannot be exercised within one year)

— current patrimony (e.g. available cash, savings, short-term deposits (maximum of one year), stock-options that can be exercised within one year)

