and

— a signed declaration of debts, which must contain all liabilities (with dates and figures), broken down in short-term debts (of maximum one year) and medium/long-term debts (of more than one year).

The Central Validation Service may request additional evidence or information if needed.

« Entities operating cash-based accounting — If the available financial documents do not contain a profit and loss account and a balance sheet but are limited to a cash flow statement and/or do not contain sufficient information?®,

declarations signed by the authorised legal representative of the entity may be accepted, if they provide:

— information on fixed and current assets: buildings, equipment, inventory, cash, short/long term?! deposits, short/long term receivables, sort/long term liabilities, grants and equity/sources of funding, etc — information on revenues and expenses, such as turnover from sales of goods and services, operating income, staff expenses depreciation/amortisation costs, interest expenses, etc.

In addition, it is recommended to provide any available evidence supporting the declared amounts (e.g. bank statements confirming the available balance at accounting closure date, etc).

The Central Validation Service may request additional evidence or information if needed.

* Entities covered by a guarantor — Entities that are covered by a full financial guarantee of another legal entity (i.e. guarantor) may submit the financial data of the guarantor, provided that it is a full guarantee (i.e. the guarantor has assumed full joint liability for a// debts). Ad-hoc guarantees (covering, for instance, only the participation in EU projects) cannot be accepted.

4\ Participants that would like to have the financial capacity of their guarantor assessed, must first contact the service in charge of their application for approval of the guarantee. In case of approval, the service in charge will request the Central Validation Service to proceed with the assessment of the guarantor.

