Selection of experts

Experts will be selected for assignments from the database of experts who registered in My Expert Area.

The experts will be selected for each assignment on the basis of the specific expertise needed.

For each assignment (e.g. evaluation of a call or monitoring of projects), a 'pool' of experts is drawn-up on the basis of the following criteria:

 • Experts have a high level of skills, experience and knowledge in the relevant area, including project management, innovation, exploitation, dissemination and communication. Where relevant, inter-disciplinary experts, those with expertise in appropriate disciplines of the social sciences and humanities, as well as gender specialists are included in the ‘pool’.  • If this condition is satisfied, the 'pool' should have a balanced composition in terms of various skills, experience and knowledge, geographical diversity and gender. With respect to gender, the policy of the EU is one of equal opportunities for women and men and, in this context, we have a target of 40% of the under-represented sex in evaluation panels and expert groups.  • A private-public sector balance is assured, if appropriate.  • Experts are regularly rotated by ensuring that individual experts do not work more than 200 days activities within consecutive 4 calendar years (EUR 90 000 EUR). With respect to evaluations in particular, for each call, at least 25% of experts included in the ‘pool’ should be newcomers, i.e. not have evaluated for the call in the previous 3 years.

 • Experts are regularly rotated by ensuring that individual experts do not work more than 200 days activities within consecutive 4 calendar years (EUR 90 000 EUR). With respect to evaluations in particular, for each call, at least 25% of experts included in the ‘pool’ should be newcomers, i.e. not have evaluated for the call in the previous 3 years.

The ‘pool’ of experts is drawn-up well in advance of the assignment in question and the final list of experts selected from the initial ‘pool’ is made once the precise needs in terms of expertise are known, e.g. in the case of an evaluation, after the call deadline once the proposals are known. Consequently, extra experts are generally included in the 'pool' to ensure the expertise required is covered and to foresee a sufficient reserve, should some no longer be in a position to carry out the task.

