2.1 Registration and validation of your organisation
Before submitting an application, all participants involved in the proposal must first be
registered in the Portal Participant Register and have their 9-digit Participant Identification Code
(PIC number).
You can verify directly on the Portal whether your organisation is already registered and has a
PIC. If not, please proceed with the registration following the instructions on the same page
(the Registration wizard will help you through the process). Once completed, you get the PIC
to be used in your online application form and further correspondence with the EU services.
If you do not have an user account (EU Login), you will first need to create one, before starting
the registration process. If you already have a user account (EU Login), you can log in and
directly start registration.
Please note that the Participant Register is primarily directed at organisations and that not
all of the labels fit for individuals (natural persons). Enter your information as appropriate (e.g.
country of residence instead of country of registration, passport number instead of registration
number, etc).
What you need to register your organisation
To register your organisation, you will need to provide basic administrative and legal
information, in addition to contact details.
Get ready
Since the declared information will be verified against supporting documents later on, it is
useful to have the relevant documents at hand when you complete the registration, to
make sure you fill in everything correctly (legal form, non-profit, public/private, etc).
Check for already existing PIC
In order to avoid creating duplicate PICs, you should first check whether your organisation
(or another department) is already registered in the Portal and use that PIC.
Go to How to Participate > Participant Register > Search a PIC > Search a PIC and put in
your organisation data. Check several variants to make sure there is really no entry.
If no PIC is registered, start registration
Go to How to Participate > Participant Register > Register your organisation. The
Registration wizard will guide you step-by-step through the process.
Detailed explanations are available in the .
You do not need to complete the registration process in a single session. You can enter some
information, save it and continue later on. To resume your registration, go to My Organisations
> Continue Registration. Incomplete draft registrations are automatically deleted after one
year.
If you create by mistake a new PIC, see below Data updates.
PIC number
After completing a new registration, you will receive the 9-digit Participant Identification
Code (PIC) — to be used in your online application form and further correspondence with the
EU services.
The newly created PIC will be provisional (declared/non-valid status) until it is formally validated
at a later stage.
Nothing else is expected from you after the PIC has been generated, the Central Validation
Service will contact you later, to initiate the validation process.
Validation of your organisation
If your proposal is successful, you will be contacted for the validation of your PIC
registration data.
Validation is needed only for certain types of participants (grants: Beneficiaries and Affiliated
Entities; procurement: Contractors). It is not needed for Associated Partners, Subcontractors
or other participants.
It will be done by the Central Validation Service which carries out the validation for all EU
services using the Portal.
The Central Validation Service will contact the person who registered the organisation (Self-
registrant) and ask them to:
• upload official supporting documents (via the My Organisations page)
• clarify any details.
The documents that are required will be listed in the notification you receive. You will need to
fill out a legal entity identification form and provide us with an official VAT document,
registration extract, statutes or act of establishment, etc. The detailed list of documents is also
explained in the Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity
Assessment.
The Central Validation Service will check that your organisation is legally recognised (has legal
personality). If this is not the case (exceptionally this is allowed), you will have to prove that
the representatives have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on the organisation’s behalf
and that the organisation has financial and operational capacity equivalent to that of legal
persons.
The Central Validation Service will also check whether your organisation qualifies for some of
the special legal statuses that are required for some funding programmes (private or public
body, non-profit, international organisation).
The outcome of this process is the validation of your organisation (validated PIC). The Central
Validation Service will send a confirmation message once the process is completed and the PIC
is validated.
Please don’t forget that all communications with the Central Validation Service must take
place through the Participant Register (My Organisations page). Emails and other
communications will NOT be accepted.
Please also note that if you apply for a call with specific eligibility criteria that are not validated
by the Central Validation Service, these will be checked by the responsible EU service managing
the call — in addition to the validation, which means that they may come back to you with
additional questions.
Validation of the organisation is a prerequisite for the LEAR appointment.
Data updates
Updates to the registered organisation data must be requested via the Participant Register (My
Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation):
• by the LEAR (or Account Administrators) for validated entities
• by the Self-registrant if your organisation has not been validated yet.
If your organisation has already a validated PIC and a new one is created by mistake, your
LEAR or Account Administrator should contact the Central Validation Service via the Portal
Messaging Facility (My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation). The information will be
transferred from the duplicate PIC to the correct PIC and the duplicate flagged.
SME self-assessment
In addition to the standard validation, a SME self-assessment is needed if you apply for a call
where SME status is an eligibility criterion (or allows for a higher funding rate or other
advantages).
If there is no recent (not older than 2 years) SME self-assessment information available in the
Participant Register, the Portal Submission System will automatically prompt you to go through
the SME self-assessment wizard to establish your SME status. You will need to enter the
financial figures of the last approved accounting period of your organisation and of any other
organisation that might be directly or indirectly related to you. If the result confirms your SME
status, you will be able to proceed with the application process.
Please note that the SME self-assessment is only needed if the SME-status is an eligibility
criterion (or gives special advantages); otherwise, you will simply self-declare your SME status
in the Legal Information tab and proceed with the registration.Detailed rules are explained in
the Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment.
Links
• Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
• Participant Register: User Guide
FAQ
• FAQ on Participant Register, organisation data management and SME-self-assessment