3. Grants

3.1 Applying for funding

3.1.1 Search funding opportunities — Find a call
The Portal is the single point of entry for all EU funding and tenders, i.e. grants, prizes and
procurements managed by the European Commission and other EU services.
The Portal currently hosts the following EU funding programmes:
MFF 2021-2027
Anti-Counterfeiting (PERICLES IV)
Anti-Fraud (EUAF)
Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF)
Border Management and Visa (BMVI)
Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values (CERV)
Civil Protection (UCPM)
Connecting Europe Facility (CEF)
Creative Europe (CREA)
Customs Control Equipment (CCEI)
Defence (EDF)
Digital Europe
Environment and Climate Action (LIFE)
Erasmus+
EU External Action (RELEX)
Eu4Health
European Social Fund + (ESF)
European Solidarity Corps (ESC)
Fiscalis
Horizon Europe (including Euratom)
Humanitarian Aid (HA)
Information Measures Common Agricultural Policy (IMCAP)
Innovation Fund (INNOVFUND)
Internal Security Fund (ISF)
Justice Programme (JUST)
Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund (EMFAF)
Pilot Projects and Preparatory Actions
Promotion of Agricultural Products (AGRIP)
Renewable Energy Financing Mechanism
Research Fund for Coal & Steel (RFCS)
Single Market (including COSME, Consumers, European Statistics)
Social Prerogative and Specific Competencies Lines (SOCPL)
Technical Support (TSI)
MFF 2014-2020
Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF)
Civil Protection (UCPM)
Consumer Programme
COSME
Defence and Industrial Development (EDIDP)
European Statistics (ESP)
Health (3HP)
Hercule III
Horizon 2020 (H2020)
Internal Security Fund – Borders and Visa (ISFB)
Internal Security Fund – Police (ISFP)
Justice (JUST)
Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF)
Pilot Projects and Preparatory Actions
Promotion of Agricultural Products (AGRIP)
Research Fund for Coal & Steel (RFCS)
Rights, Equality and Citizenship (REC)
You can access calls and topics in your area of interest through the Portal Search funding &
tenders page. This page allows you to search in the text of the call and topic titles, call and
topic identifiers, topic description and keywords and tags. You can also filter using the quick
search per topics related to specific EU priorities.
If you would like to receive updates on new calls, you can subscribe to the Funding Opportunities
RSS feed.
The Search funding & tenders page also hosts calls for tenders (EU procurements) and prizes.
It does NOT cover financial instruments (EU loans and venture capital) — these are normally
managed through financial partners (banks), but the Portal homepage has a direct link to the
Access to finance page on Europa.
Calls and topics
On the Portal most calls are divided into topics.
Call — Group of topics that are open in parallel and address the same policy domain.
Topic — Part of a call with one opening and closing date. The proposals submitted to the topic
will be evaluated together and compete against each other.
The Search funding & tenders page will display the list of open topics; the name of the call they
belong to is visible on the Topic page.
The Topic page contains all the information you need to have for your proposal (call conditions,
legal framework and key documents, standard application form and other practical information
you need to prepare your proposal). The Topic page also specifies the call deadline and contains
a link to the Portal Submission System, through which you can submit your proposal. The
Topic page also contains call and topic updates (changes or important information for the
applicants).
Deadline for submission
A topic is considered open until the deadline for submission has passed (call deadline).
Each topic will specify deadlines and/or cut-off dates.
Deadline models
Single-stage
For most topics, you must submit a full proposal by the call deadline.
Two-stage
Some topics have a 2-stage submission procedure, which means that you have to submit a
short outline proposal for stage 1 and then a full proposal only if you are invited to stage 2
(meaning that your project looks promising).
Multiple cut-off
Some topics are continuously open, where you can submit a proposal at any time, and cut-
off dates mean that all proposals received by a given cut-off date will be evaluated after that
deadline.
Types of action
Types of action designate funding schemes, i.e. calls with the same characteristics: policy
domain (scope of funded activities), award criteria, reimbursement rate and in some cases form
of funding (budget-based grant, lump sum grant, unit grant, prize, procurement, debt and
equity facility, etc).
The types of action depend on each EU programme.
There are two main types: action grants (for projects) and operating grants (to support
organisations and their running costs).
In addition, most programmes distinguish the following:
• Project Grants
• Lump Sum Grants
• Unit Grants and
• Framework Partnerships.
However, especially larger programmes have developed their own specific set of types of action,
for instance:
• Horizon Europe: Research and Innovation Actions, Innovation Actions, Coordination and
Support Actions, Pre-commercial Procurements, Public Procurement of Innovative
Solutions, etc
• Digital Europe: Simple Grants, Coordination and Support Actions, SME Support Actions,
Grants for Financial Support, Grants for Procurement, PAC Grants for Procurement,
Lump Sum Grants, Framework Partnerships
• CEF: Project Grants, Infrastructure Projects, Lump Sum Grants, Unit Grants, Framework
Partnerships
• Single Market Programme: Project Grants, Lump Sum Grants, Grants for Financial
Support, PPI Grants for Procurement, Framework Partnerships, European Statistics, etc.
Within the types of actions, EU grants fund all kinds of activities (collaborative actions,
coordination and networking actions, coordination and support actions, support to
organisations, technical assistance and capacity building actions, mobility actions, cofund
actions to existing grant schemes/procurements of the beneficiaries, infrastructure actions,
etc).
Technology readiness levels (TRL)
Calls in the field of innovation (close to market) often use the notion of technology readiness
level to specify also the level of technology readiness that is expected from the projects. There
are 9 technology readiness levels:
• TRL 1 — basic principles observed
• TRL 2 — technology concept formulated
• TRL 3 — experimental proof of concept
• TRL 4 — technology validated in lab
• TRL 5 — technology validated in relevant environment
• TRL 6 — technology demonstrated in relevant environment
• TRL 7 — system prototype demonstration in operational environment
• TRL 8 — system complete and qualified
• TRL 9 — actual system proven in operational environment.