3.1.3 Apply with partners or as individual
Who can apply?
To see whether your organisation is eligible for funding, check the call conditions on the Topic
page.
In general, most EU funding programmes require that participants (Beneficiaries and Affiliated
Entities) are:
• legal entities (public or private bodies, including international organisations)
and
• established in one of the eligible countries, i.e.:
EU Member State (including EU overseas countries and territories (OCTs))
o
eligible non-EU countries:
o
EEA countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway — if opted-in for the
o
programme)
associated countries (countries associated to the funding programme by
o
paying a contribution — list differs for each programme).
Please be aware, however, that almost all programmes have additional criteria, which
widen or narrow the group of entities that can apply. Some programmes are open to participants
from the entire world (e.g. Horizon Europe) others are deliberately restricted to EU countries
only (e.g. EDF). In addition, the situation can be different from call to call even within a
programme. It is therefore very important to carefully look at the call conditions.
Moreover, participants must be registered in the Participant Register (mandatory for
Beneficiaries, Affiliated Entities and Associated Partners) and be validated by the Central
Validation Service by the time the grant is signed (mandatory for Beneficiaries and Affiliated
Entities).
Multi-participant or mono-participant actions
Most of the calls for EU grants target multi-beneficiary consortia made up of participants from
different countries — to enhance the EU added value, promote cooperation between
organisations in different countries, reinforce the quality of applications and ensure fair
competition and equal opportunities throughout the EU.
Some programmes formalise this, by adding specific requirements for the consortium
composition (e.g. Horizon Europe, UCPM, etc).
To see whether a call requires minimum consortium composition, check the call conditions on
the Topic page.
How to find partners for your project ideas?
To find partners for your project ideas, you can:
• Use the Partner Search function of the Portal. The function allows to:
look for organisations which received funding in the past
o
create and check Partner Search requests by call/topic
o
• Use other Partner Search tools and services. A list of recommended support sites is
offered under the Helpdesks & Support Services page.
• Participate in conferences, brokerage events organised by the EU or networks in the
Member States (National Contact Points or Desks, Enterprise Europe Network, etc).
Portal Partner Search
If you want to find experienced partners who already have ongoing projects, or if you want to
browse in the database of registered organisations, visit the Partner Search page. You can
search by keyword/geographical area/funding type, etc. Search results include complete
organisation profiles with lists of funded projects and the possibility to contact representatives.
If you have selected your area of interest via the Topic search, you may publish your
offer/interest for one or more of the open/forthcoming topics of a call on the Portal. All your
published offers/interests will be visible on your organisation's page too.
Enterprise Europe Network Cooperation Opportunities Database — The Enterprise Europe
Network (EEN) publishes an extensive number of innovation and technology profiles from
international companies and research organisations to help identify suitable partners for
bilateral business, innovation and technology cooperation. The EEN database is updated with
new profiles on a weekly basis. All profiles are published anonymously. Express your interest in
collaboration by filling in and sending the Expression of Interest form to your local EEN office,
who will establish the contact.
Consortium roles and responsibilities
When setting up your grant consortium, you should think of organisations that help you reach
objectives and solve problems.
Beneficiaries — Affiliated Entities — Associated Partners —
Subcontractors
The roles should be attributed according to the level of participation in the project. Main
participants should participate as Beneficiaries or Affiliated Entities (former Linked Third
Parties); other entities can participate as Associated Partners, Subcontractors, Third parties
giving in-kind contributions, etc.
Associated Partners and Third parties giving in-kind contributions do not get any part
of the grant money and will therefore have to organise other funding sources (bear their own
costs, internal reallocation of funding inside the consortium, find investors, etc).
Subcontracting should normally constitute a limited part of the project and will need to
be justified (give reasons). Tasks may NOT be subcontracted inside the consortium (between
Beneficiaries or Affiliated Entities).
Coordinator — Other Beneficiaries
The Coordinator is responsible for managing the project, submitting reports and deliverables
and acting as intermediary for all contacts with the EU Granting Authority.
The other Beneficiaries must implement their part of the project and contribute to the grant
administration (preparing the grant, reporting, etc).
The consortium participants will be jointly responsible for implementing the project activities
(in accordance with their proposal/description of the action). If a project is not finished (or badly
implemented), the grant money may have to be reduced for everyone.