3.2.3 Special procedures: Ethics review, security scrutiny,
Ownership control check
Ethics review
In order to avoid funding of ethically problematic activities, some funding programmes require
an ethics review procedure to clear the projects (e.g. Horizon Europe, Digital Europe, EU4H,
AMIF).
The details and the scope of the ethics review depend on each programme. Most programmes
simply check whether projects raise ethics issues and, if so, whether these are adequately
addressed. Some programmes, such as Horizon Europe, have a more elaborated review
procedure which includes several steps depending on the complexity of the issues (see Horizon
Europe Programme Guide).
The participants will be informed (through the coordinating organisation) of the ethics review
result and it will be posted in their Portal library (My Projects > Actions > Manage Project >
Document Library).
If the ethics review leads to requirements to be implemented before grant signature, you will
need to take immediate action to comply (and may also have to adapt the description of the
action (DoA Part B) to reflect this). If the review leads to additional requirements to be fulfilled
during the project, they are automatically added as ethics deliverables into the system and DoA
Part A and will be placed in an automatically generated work package called ethics
requirements. If the review shows that there are serious ethics issues that cannot be solved,
funding may have to be refused.
You may be asked to provide additional information if this is needed to complete the ethics
review (e.g. in case of serious or complex ethics issues or missing information).
Links
• How to complete your ethics self-assessment
Security scrutiny
In order to ensure that classified information (for EU classified information (EUCI), see Decision
2015/444) is protected from unauthorised disclosure and that security issues emerging from
project activities are appropriately addressed, some EU programmes systematically provide for
a security review procedure for applications that operate in security relevant contexts (e.g.
European Defence Fund, Horizon Europe, Digital Europe).
The details and the scope of the security review depend on each programme. Some
programmes, such as Horizon Europe and Digital Europe, have a more elaborated security
review procedure which includes several steps depending on whether the topic under which a
proposal is submitted is flagged by the Commission as security sensitive or not (see Horizon
Europe Programme Guide).
The security scrutiny (which is the final step of the more elaborated security review) is
essentially the same for all programmes: proposals must be cleared by the Security Scrutiny
Group (composed of national security experts nominated in agreement with their national
security authorities (NSAs)). The Security Scrutiny Group will determine the level of sensitivity
of the application and check whether all security aspects are being handled appropriately. You
will be informed about the result through your coordinator.
If the security scrutiny leads to requirements to be implemented before grant signature, you
will need to take immediate action to comply. If the scrutiny leads to classification and additional
requirements to be fulfilled during the project, this will be automatically reflected in the system
(classification of existing deliverables, limited dissemination of existing deliverables due to
security reasons, security aspect letter (SAL), security classification guide (SCG), appointment
of project security officer, establishment of security advisory board, etc.). If the scrutiny shows
that the project is too security sensitive, funding may have to be refused.
Links
• How to handle security-sensitive projects
Third country control
Some programmes (or calls) limit the participation of entities which are controlled by third
countries (e.g. European Defence Fund, Digital Europe, Horizon Europe, CEF). In this case, a
special procedure is needed to verify ownership control of participants.
Links
• Guidance on participation in DEP, HE, EDF and CEF-DIG restricted calls
• Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment