3.2.2 Evaluation
Admissible and eligible proposals are sent on to evaluation by an independent evaluation
committee.
For most programmes the evaluation committee (panel) is made up of EU staff from the
Granting Authority and other services. They are often and assisted by outside experts for
individual evaluation and consensus group evaluation. For some programmes however (e.g.
Horizon Europe), the committee is usually composed exclusively of outside experts — for all
stages of the evaluation process (no internal staff).
The evaluation committee will also take position on the operational capacity of the consortium
and individual participants to properly implement the tasks planned. This assessment will be
based on the competence and experience of the participants, including operational resources
(human, technical and other) and is, for many programmes, integrated into the award criteria.
3.2.2.1 Award criteria
Award criteria, scores thresholds and weighting
Proposals are evaluated and scored against award criteria set out in the call conditions on the
Topic page.
The award criteria, scores, thresholds and weightings depend on each programme and type of
action.
Globally speaking most programmes evaluate the following quality parameters: project
relevance, quality/implementation and impact. But in practice the labels vary and the
parameters are broken down into different aspects and focal points (see call conditions and, for
some programmes, the Programme Guides, e.g. Horizon Europe Programme Guide, Erasmus+
Programme Guide, AGRIP Programme Guide).
To be considered for funding, your proposal must score above a certain threshold for each
individual award criterion, and above an overall threshold for all of them together.
Moreover, in order to receive funding, your proposal must be ranked sufficiently to be above
the budget-threshold (relative positioning in the list of all proposals, compared to the other
proposals). For calls which provide for weightings, this ranking will also depend on the
weighting.
Your proposals will be evaluated on its own merit, and not its potential should certain
changes be made. Proposals with an inflated budget are likely to receive a lower score.
3.2.2.2 Evaluation and evaluation results
Evaluation process
Briefing
Evaluation: Individual evaluation > Consensus group > Panel review
Briefing of evaluators
Before starting the evaluation process, the evaluators are briefed on:
• the evaluation processes and procedures (including award criteria)
• the content of the topics under consideration
• the need to evaluate proposals as they were submitted, rather than their potential
should certain changes be made
• for outside experts: the terms of their contract (confidentiality, impartiality, conflicts of
interest, completing tasks and approving reports, penalties for non-compliance, etc).
For most EU programmes, there is no scope for recommending improvements to proposals
(including improvements on the budget).
Individual evaluation
During the individual evaluation, the evaluators work individually. Each evaluator gives a score
for each criterion, with explanatory comments, and prepares an individual evaluation report
(IER).
Proposals are normally evaluated by at least three individual evaluators (for some programmes
and types of action, two may suffice; for many it is five).
The evaluators should also indicate if they consider that the proposal:
• is out of scope or
• involves security issues that will need further scrutiny.
Consensus group
After the individual evaluation, all evaluators who have evaluated the proposal will get together
in a consensus group, to agree on a common position on comments and scores.
For consensus groups made up of outside experts, the group will normally be assisted by a
member of the Granting Authority staff who will act as moderator to:
• seek a consensus, impartially and
• ensure that each proposal is evaluated fairly, according to the award criteria.
Panel review
After the consensus phase, the evaluation committee (panel) will take over and discuss the
proposals to:
• reach an agreement on the scores and comments for all proposals evaluated together,
checking consistency across the evaluations
• if necessary, propose a new set of marks or revise comments, and resolve cases where
evaluators were unable to agree
• rank the above-threshold proposals and give a priority order for proposals with the same
score.
Proposals with the same score
The evaluation committee will recommend a priority order for proposals with the same score,
using the procedure set out in the call conditions.
Interviews/hearings
If provided for in the call conditions, the evaluation committee (panel) may arrange
interviews/hearings.
In this case, invitations are sent to the coordinators of above-threshold proposals (and,
sometimes, also to those with scores above individual thresholds but below the overall
qualifying threshold).
The interviews/hearings may be held remotely or on site, in Brussels.
The questions to be asked will be determined by the panel beforehand and sent to all proposals.
The interviews/hearings will be used to get further information to clarify the proposals and help
the panel establish its final ranking list and scores. They may not serve to change proposals or
add missing information.
Outcome of evaluation
On the basis of the report and ranked list provided by the evaluation committee (panel), the
Granting Authority reviews the evaluation result, puts together the final ranking list and
informs the participants.
You can find the timing the evaluation and information on evaluation results in the call
conditions on the Topic page.
Final ranking — Reserve list — Rejections
The Granting Authority produces the final ranked list and the list of applications proposed
for funding.
The number of proposals in the list depends on the available budget. If the available budget is
too small to fund all above-threshold proposals (normally the case because EU grants are
heavily oversubscribed), some proposals may be put on a reserve list. These will then be
offered funding if a higher-scoring project does not go ahead or additional funds become
available.
The below-threshold proposals will be rejected.
Proposals will NOT be offered funding if the Granting Authority finds that it is already funding
very similar work elsewhere, or a proposal is in any way manifestly contrary to EU general
principles or established EU priorities or policies.
Evaluation result letters — Evaluation summary report
The participants will be informed (through the coordinating organisation) about their evaluation
result (together with the evaluation summary report (ESR)) and it will be posted in their Portal
library (My Proposals > Actions > Follow-up > Proposal Management & Grant Preparation >
Documents).
If your proposal was successful, you will get a grant preparation invitation letter. To follow
the further steps of preparing your grant, you will be prompted for each of the actions that need
to be carried out. Details are explained in the next section Grant preparation.
Please note that invitation to grant preparation is NOT a formal commitment for funding. The
final decision on your project will only be taken at a later stage — this depends on the finalisation
of grant preparation and further checks which we still need to make (i.e. financial capacity, non-
exclusion, etc).
If your proposal was not succesful, you will receive a rejection letter. The means of redress for
such rejections are described in the section Complaints about proposal rejection.