3.2.4 Grant preparation
Grant preparation
The Grant Agreement must be prepared directly in the Portal Grant Management System.
Where? Access to the Grant Management System is available through My Projects > Actions
> Manage Project > Proposal Management & Grant Preparation > Grant agreement data
preparation.
Who? The Grant Agreement data should be prepared by the consortium participants together
and submitted by the Coordinator.
How? You will be prompted by e-mail for all the actions that you need to carry out for the grant
preparation. For more details, see the list of grant-related notifications.
What? The grant preparation process consists of:
• setting up the Portal Grant Management System with the:
participants’ legal, administrative and financial information
o
description of the action (DoA, Annex 1 GA)
o
estimated budget (Annex 2 and 2a GA)
o
project variables (when the project starts, reporting periods, amount of
o
prefinancing, GA options, etc)
legal documents needed for grant signature (declarations of honour)
o
• so that the system can generate the Grant Agreement
and
• trigger signature directly inside the system (Grant Agreement and Accession Forms).
In parallel, the Granting Authority will perform the remaining legal checks to ensure that all the
successful proposals can receive EU funding (legal entity validation, financial capacity check,
non-exclusion check, etc).
Our Grant Agreement clauses are common to all EU programmes and mandatory for all
beneficiaries. They are explained in more detail in the AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement.
Grant preparation process
Enter & submit grant data: Entering legal, administrative & financial data > Preparing the
Description of the Action (DoA)
Signing the Grant Agreement
Description of the Action (DoA) (Part A and B)
The description of the action (DoA, Annex 1) is structured like the application form into
two parts, Parts A and B:
• Part A: contains the structured tables with project information (retrieved from the Grant
Management System tabs)
• Part B (the narrative part): is based on Part B of the application form and must be
uploaded as a PDF.
Creating Part B of the DoA is straightforward, as it can be derived directly from Part B of the
application. The instructions for this are available on Portal Reference Documents.
The system will merge the Parts A and B, generating a single PDF with the full description of
the action (DoA).
All participants can contribute to the parts, but it is the Coordinator who will have to finalise
and submit it.
Tasks of the Coordinator:
• Workplan tables: Complete the workplan tables in Part A, (work package descriptions,
deliverables and milestones)
• Check that all PICs have been validated by the Central Validation Service
• Quality check:
Check that the DoA is coherent and that information in Part A and B is consistent.
Some programmes will ask you not to simply attach the application, but to adapt Part
B. In this case, try to avoid overlaps between Parts A and B (delete work plan tables
from Part B, etc).
Check that DoA and the application match: please check if the content of the DoA differs
from the application, as this must be in compliance with your invitation letter to start
grant preparation. In addition, you may correct shortcomings identified by the experts
in the evaluation summary report. The information presented in the DoA can be made
more consistent if necessary. Any errors should be corrected (data displayed in a table
or figure is at odds with the description, etc).
Check that the DoA and the legal and administrative information match: for example, it
must describe the role and tasks performed by each Partner (Coordinator, Beneficiary,
Affiliated Entity, Third party providing in-kind contributions, etc) defined in the
structured part.
Make sure that the template has been followed and all sections are completed and no
annexes are missing.
Termination of grant preparation
If the consortium decides against the grant during grant preparation, they can launch the
termination process directly in the Portal. See the detailed screens and descriptions in the
on grant preparation termination.
This type of termination works only during grant preparation. Afterwards (after grant
signature), the grant must be formally terminated by amending the GA (early termination
amendment).
Links
• Horizon Europe Coordinators' Day 2022 event page (including recording of the event
and presentations)
• How to successfully manage a Horizon 2020-funded project — 10 practical tips on
research project management
• Communication to Horizon 2020 beneficiaries: How to avoid errors when claiming costs
in H2020 grants
FAQ
• FAQ on grant preparation
3.2.4.1 Enter & submit grant data
Actions to be completed before grant preparation
Organise access rights and roles
All Beneficiaries need access rights in order to prepare their grant data in the system and
sign the legal documents (declarations of honour, Grant Agreements and Accession Forms).
The contact persons of each organisation indicated in the proposal will automatically receive
access rights during grant preparation:
Proposal Grant preparation
Person who created the application ou PCoCo
submit the proposal?
Contact persons with full access rights CoCos (for Coordinator) + PaCos (for
other Beneficiaries)
Contact persons with read-only rights Team Members (TeMes)
In addition, if your organisation has already been validated, the LEAR will normally also
already have been appointed.
Other persons and roles (especially LSIGNs and FSIGNs) will have to be appointed first by
the LEAR (My Organisations > Actions > Edit Organisation Roles > Add Roles) and then
assigned to the project by the CoCos and PaCos (My Projects > Actions > Project
Consortium > Edit Roles).
The minimum setup of roles that you need to prepare and conclude the Grant Agreement
are the following:
• for the Coordinator:
Primary Coordinator Contact (PCoCo) — already appointed
o
Legal Entity Appointed Representative (LEAR)
o
Project Legal Signatory (PLSIGN)
o
• for other Beneficiaries:
Participant Contact (PaCo)
o
Legal Entity Appointed Representative (LEAR)
o
Project Legal Signatory (PLSIGN).
o
The same person can fulfil several or all of the above roles.
Our system allows for only one signature on your side. If your internal rules require
several signatories, you must give an internal mandate to one of them and ensure that the
electronic signature in our system is executed only after all the necessary internal
authorisations were given. These authorisations must be collected, stored and kept by you
in line with your usual management practices (usually paper-based) so that they can be
provided to us in case of EU controls, checks or audits.
More details about nomination are in the Roles and access rights section.
Make sure all participants are registered and validated (PIC)
All Beneficiaries and Affiliated Entities must be registered and validated in time for grant
signature (see section on Registration and validation of your organisation).
Associated Partners need to be only registered (have a PIC); no validation is needed,
because they will not receive any grant money.
Prepare and sign a consortium agreement (always recommended; in many
cases mandatory)
Consortium agreements are mandatory for many EU programmes. But even if they are not,
it is highly recommended to have arrangements in place to cover consortium-internal issues
that may arise during the project (e.g. decision-making procedures, resolve conflicts,
safeguard intellectual property rights, etc). The consortium agreement should be signed
before the Grant Agreement. For details, see AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 7
and the How to establish your H2020 consortium agreement.
Enter legal, administrative & financial data
You need to prepare the Grant Agreement in the Portal Grant Management System.
Details are explained in the .
Enter the structured information into the system (Part A of the DoA)
Go to My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Proposal Management & Grant Preparation
> Grant agreement data preparation and transfer the information from your application
form (Part B) to the Work Packages, Deliverables, Milestones and Critical Risks screens.
You can move work packages up and down by drag & drop to position them in the order of
your preference. When a work package is moved to a new position, the numbering of WPs
(and also the relative numbering of deliverables) is automatically adapted.
Enter the other grant data into the system
a) Set the project starting date
Set the date on which the project is to start (starting date of the action) on the Project
Summary screen.
The options may vary depending on programme and type of action (see call conditions),
but generally there are 2 options:
• the first day of the month after entry into force (signature by EU) — default
option
• if needed, a fixed starting date may be agreed — this should be the first day of
a month and normally after grant signature (unless authorised otherwise by the
Granting Authority).
If you enter a fixed starting date, you will be asked to justify your choice. If you
chose a starting date before grant signature, you must explain why your project requires
this. Please note that the starting date can normally NOT be before the date on which
your application was submitted (unless explicitly allowed in the call conditions). Please
also note that any project activities taking place before grant signature bear the risk
that the grant may finally not be signed.
b) Check the project reporting periods
The reporting periods will be pre-filled for each call on the Reporting Periods screen.
To minimise administrative burden for you, we will choose the smallest possible number
of reporting periods. On average, most programmes tend to have reporting periods
between 12 and 18 months.
c) Check the prefinancing for the project
The standard prefinancing percentage will be pre-filled for each call on the Project
Financial Information screen.
The final prefinancing amount for each project will however be fixed only later, once the
budgetary information is completed from your side and the Granting Authority has
examined the results from the financial capacity assessment (see section Financial
capacity assessment). The prefinancing may be lowered in case of low financial capacity.
d) Complete the legal and administrative information for the participants
Fill in the missing information for each participant on the Partner Summary screen and
complete the Affiliated Entities and Associated Partner screens.
e) Define the budgets for the participants
Fill in the budget for each participant on the Partner Financial Information screens.
Make sure the budget details match the proposal and the GAP invitation letter (and the
detailed budget table, if required).
f) Provide the banking details for the Coordinator
Select the bank account to be used for payments from the dropdown menu on the
Coordinator’s Bank Account screen.
If your preferred bank account is not listed, you must ask your LEAR to add the bank
account in the Participant Register (My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation).
Once the new bank account has been validated (this may take a few days), it will appear
in the dropdown menu and you will be able to select it.
f) Enter other information as prompted
Upload Part B of the description of the action (DoA)
Upload Part B on the Documents screen. Follow the instructions from Portal Reference
Documents.
Sign the declarations of honour (DoH)
For each Beneficiary, the PLSIGN must sign a declaration of honour (DoH) directly in the
system (grant declaration) .
Affiliated entities also need to sign a DoH. For them, the responsible Beneficiary must
download the template from Portal Reference Documents, ask each entity to complete and
sign it, then upload the scanned DoHs for their linked third parties.
Joint and several liability of Affiliated Entities (if required)
If the Granting Authority requires joint and several liability of an Affiliated Entity, the
declaration on joint and several liability must be submitted together with the Accession
Form.
The Beneficiary must download the form prepared by the system, ask the Affiliated Entity
to sign it and upload the scanned declaration when signing the Accession Form.
For more details, see AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 22.
Prefinancing guarantee (if required)
If the Granting Authority requires a prefinancing guarantee, you need to obtain this from
a bank or approved financial institution (using the template available on Portal Reference
Documents), send a scanned copy through Portal Formal Notifications (My Projects >
Actions > Manage Project > Launch new interaction with the EU > Formal Notification) and
the original by registered post with proof of delivery to the mail address of the service
responsible for your grant.
For more details, see AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 23.
Submit grant preparation to the Granting Authority
Assessment by the Granting Authority and finalisation of GA data
The Project Officer will enter the EU grant preparation data (GA options, etc) and check the
data submitted by the consortium. If needed, they will send back the session to the
consortium for changes/addition information (ping-pong).
Tips
Changes to consortium composition/project during grant preparation
Please note that consortia/projects can be altered ONLY under exceptional circumstances,
and ONLY if duly justified.
Nonetheless, there may be circumstances where you may need to change/adjust the consortium
composition/project before grant signature (bankruptcy, merger/acquisition, loss of a key
member of staff that is needed to carry out the project, etc).
In this case, your Coordinator should contact the EU Project Officer explain why and propose a
solution (reassign tasks and budget within the consortium or to a new participant, adjustments
to the project, etc).
If accepted, you may need to update the Grant Management System screens and upload a new
Part B.
Please note that the proposals may NOT be substantially changed and that all changed
elements must comply with the call conditions for the call. Redistribution of tasks must be in
line with the competences of the participants concerned and the quality of the
project/consortium must be guaranteed.
If no acceptable solution is presented, we will request you to withdraw the proposal and
terminate grant preparation.
Deadlines
In the interest of all sides, we will try to handle grant preparation as swiftly as possible (ideally
3 months after you receive the GAP invitation letter).
To make this happen, we will ask you to comply with relatively strict deadlines during grant
preparation:
• Preparation grant data & annexes (first version): 3 weeks after GAP invitation letter
• Finalisation grant data & annexes: up to 2 weeks after reply by Project Officer
• Sign declaration of honour (DoH): at the latest 6 weeks after GAP invitation letter.
• Grant signature: 3 months from GAP invitation letter
Deadlines can be extended under exceptional circumstances by the EU Project Officer.
Please note that if you have not been granted an extension, and fail to meet the established
deadlines, preparation of your Grant Agreement may be terminated and your proposal rejected.
3.2.4.2 Final legal checks
During grant preparation, we will also finalise the mandatory legal checks (legal entity
validation, operational and financial capacity, exclusion and double funding).
In case of issues, we may need to contact you.