3.3.7 Checks, audits, reviews & investigations
In order to ensure sound financial management and compliance with the Grant Agreement
rules, the Granting Authority will perform project reviews and financial audits on participants.
For lump sum grants, since they do not use actual costs, there will be no financial audits focusing
on costs. Reviews will focus on the technical implementation of the action or other aspects of
the Grant Agreement.
Project reviews
The Granting Authority will regularly monitor the project implementation and check the proper
implementation of the action and compliance with the Grant Agreement obligations, including
assessing deliverables and reports.
In addition, the Granting Authority may also carry out in-depth project reviews. Those reviews
focus typically on the technical implementation of the project, but may also cover financial and
budgetary aspects or compliance with other obligations under the GA.
Audits
In addition, most programmes perform financial audits of participants in EU projects (often with
the help of outside audit firms).
Such audits will be performed in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. The
auditors comply with ethical requirements and will plan and perform relevant procedures in line
with the EU Grants Indicative Audit Programme, in order to obtain reasonable assurance that
the Financial Statements are free of material misstatement.
You will receive a draft audit report on which you will be able to provide your observations.
If systemic errors are found, the Granting Authority may extend the findings of the audit
results to non-audited Grant Agreements or non-audited periods.
Anti-fraud strategy — OLAF investigations
In case of fraud suspicions, the Granting Authority will inform the European Anti-fraud Office
(OLAF), who may conduct more in-depth investigations.
OLAF also cooperates with national authorities (through information exchange, on-the-spot
checks, coordination of forensic audits etc).
Related Certifications
Certificate on the methodology for unit cost (CoMUC)
The CoMUC is a factual report produced by an independent auditor (using the template available
on Portal Reference Documents). Its purpose is to enable the granting authority to:
• identify your usual cost accounting practices
• check that you have used a suitable unit cost accounting methodology.
Submitting a CoMUC methodology certificate is voluntary. Doing so will help prevent problems
later on, if your grant is audited. If the certificate is approved, costs declared in line with this
methodology will not be challenged, unless you have concealed information for the purpose of
the approval.
For the MFF 2021-2027, only CEF and Digital Europe will be using this certification. For Horizon
Europe it has been replaced by the SPA (systems and process audit; see AGA — Annotated
Grant Agreement, art 24).
The certificate may be requested at any time during the implementation of the programme.
As a minimum, one project should have been started and the data available must give the
auditor enough of a basis to carry out the necessary procedures. Ideally, we would recommend
submitting the methodology after at least one reporting period has passed.
In case of subsequent changes to your methodology you should notify the Granting Authority.
You may also submit a new certificate reflecting the changes.
Links
• AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 25
• EU Grants Indicative Audit Programme
• Commission Anti-fraud Strategy
• European Anti-fraud Office (OLAF) website
• Horizon Europe Coordinators' Day 2022 event page (including recording of the event
and presentations)
• Communication to Horizon 2020 Beneficiaries: How to avoid errors when claiming costs
in H2020 grants
FAQ
• FAQ on Audit and Certificates FAQ