7.1 Expert registration
Registering as an expert
To work as expert, you will first need to register.
To register, go to the Experts' page on the Funding & Tenders Portal. To access the registration
forms, you'll need an EU Login account, which you can set-up on the same website if you don't
yet have one.
Once you've done this, you can log in to your account any time and view, update or complete
your profile in “My Expert Area”.
Click on the "Register as an expert" button. To create your profile, you'll need to specify:
• personal details, knowledge of languages, education and training
• area of expertise
• professional experience (employment, past involvement in EU research programmes,
publications or other achievements...)
To find out exactly what type of knowledge and skills we are looking for, see the call for
expression of interests.
Privacy
Once you have completed all sections and your profile status appears as 'valid', you become
eligible for selection for an assignment. However, registration as an expert in the database
does not guarantee automatic selection. The EU services will select experts according to their
needs of expertise.
If you are selected, you will be contacted directly by the service concerned.
Selection of experts
Experts will be selected for assignments from the database of experts who registered in My
Expert Area.
The experts will be selected for each assignment on the basis of the specific expertise needed.
For each assignment (e.g. evaluation of a call or monitoring of projects), a 'pool' of experts
is drawn-up on the basis of the following criteria:
• Experts have a high level of skills, experience and knowledge in the relevant
area, including project management, innovation, exploitation, dissemination
and communication. Where relevant, inter-disciplinary experts, those with
expertise in appropriate disciplines of the social sciences and humanities, as well as
gender specialists are included in the 'pool'.
• If this condition is satisfied, the 'pool' should have a balanced composition in terms
of various skills, experience and knowledge, geographical diversity and
gender. With respect to gender, the policy of the EU is one of equal opportunities for
women and men and, in this context, we have a target of 40% of the under-represented
sex in evaluation panels and expert groups.
• A private-public sector balance is assured, if appropriate.
• Experts are regularly rotated by ensuring that individual experts do not work more
than 200 days activities within consecutive 4 calendar years (EUR 90 000 EUR). With
respect to evaluations in particular, for each call, at least 25% of experts included in the
'pool' should be newcomers, i.e. not have evaluated for the call in the previous 3 years.
The 'pool' of experts is drawn-up well in advance of the assignment in question and the final
list of experts selected from the initial 'pool' is made once the precise needs in terms of expertise
are known, e.g. in the case of an evaluation, after the call deadline once the proposals are
known. Consequently, extra experts are generally included in the 'pool' to ensure the expertise
required is covered and to foresee a sufficient reserve, should some no longer be in a position
to carry out the task.