2.1.4 Specific legal statuses
In addition, the validation covers the following specific legal statuses that are used in
certain EU funding programmes:
− private entity or public body
− non-profit or for profit organisation
− small or medium sized enterprise (SME)
− middle-capitalisation enterprise (mid-cap)
− non-governmental organisation (NGO)
− civil society organisation (CSO)
− international organisation (IO)
− research organisation
− secondary or higher education establishment.
An entity may be categorised in more than one of these legal statuses (i.e. non-profit,
public body, research organisation, international organisation, etc.).
The practical relevance of these statuses (and what happens if they change) is
established at the level of the different funding programmes, and sometimes even at
the level of the call for proposals/call for tender.
Moreover, not all of these statuses are systematically checked and validated by the
Central Validation Service. Some of them are self-declarations or self-assessments.
This means that the participants are solely responsible for the correctness of the
information they provide (in the self-declaration/self-assessment).
The Central Validation Service may however — at any time — carry out checks on
self-declared/self-assessed statuses against supporting documents and ask for
clarifications.
In case of false declarations, the EU services may:
− withdraw and correct the validated status(es)
− terminate/withdraw on-going grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc (and recover any undue amounts)
− impose financial penalties or administrative sanctions, including exclusion from
future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements,
etc.; see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial Regulation)
− inform the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
Private entity or public body
'Private entity' means an entity established under private law.
‘Public body’ means an entity established as a public body by national law, or an
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
international organisation.
‘Established as a public body by national law’ means:
− incorporated as a public body in the act of creation or recognised as a public
body by national law
and
− governed by public law (— both conditions must be fulfilled).
Criteria such as:
− mission or activity in the general interest (public service mission)
− the fact that the shares are owned by a public body (even if ownership reaches
up to 100% of the share capital)
− public financing
− state supervision and control
do NOT constitute sufficient evidence to qualify an entity as a public body, if the
above two conditions are not met.
Public bodies may however act and be subject to private law for some or most of their
activities, provided that, concerning their existence and their functioning, they are
subject to public law.
The two statuses (private entity and public body) are mutually exclusive, meaning
that you can only be validated as one or the other.
They are systematically checked against supporting documents and validated by the
Central Validation Service.
Specific cases
❖ Self-employed persons (persons who perform an activity independently and with
their own means, such as craftsmen and individuals exercising liberal, industrial and
commercial professions) — Are regarded as ‘natural persons’, not as ‘private entities’;
the business/profession/activity they perform is not provided with independent legal
personality different from that of the person.
❖ Private law bodies with a public service mission3 — A legal entity
incorporated under private law/private legal form is not considered to be a public
body even if owned by the State/other public bodies and/or pursuing a public service
mission.
Non-profit
‘Non-profit entity’ means an entity that is non-profit making by its legal form or legal
purpose (e.g. charitable organisations), or that has a legal or statutory obligation not
to distribute profits to its shareholders or members.
All profits have to be reinvested in the same activity of the entity.
3 Article 62(1)(c)(vi) of Financial Regulation 2018/1046.
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Decisions on (not) distributing profits made by the managing board, associates,
stakeholders, members, or representatives and/or practices adopted by the entity to
not distribute profits and/or the absence of profits achieved are not sufficient proof of
the non-profit nature. The obligation not to distribute profits and/or the impossibility
to distribute profits must be based on law and/or the act of establishment/articles of
association/statutes, etc.
Whether the owners/founders of the entity are non-profit and whether the profits are
allocated to non-profit (or for profit) entities is irrelevant.
This status is systematically checked against supporting documents and validated by
the Central Validation Service.
Specific cases
❖ Public bodies — Are in principle regarded as non-profit by default.
❖ Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) — The classification as ‘non-
governmental organisation (NGO)’ is not relevant for the non-profit status, since in
most countries NGO is not a recognized legal form. By contrast, non-profit status is a
prerequisite for the self-declaration as NGO (see below).
Small or medium sized enterprise (SME)
‘Small or medium sized enterprise (SME)’ means a micro, small or medium-sized
enterprise as defined in the EU SME Recommendation 2003/361, i.e.:
− engaged in an economic activity, irrespective of its legal form (including, in
particular, self-employed persons and family businesses engaged in craft or
other activities, and partnerships or associations regularly engaged in an
economic activity)
and
− employing fewer than 250 persons (expressed in ‘annual working units’ as
defined in Article 5 of the SME Recommendation) and which have an annual
turnover not exceeding EUR 50 million and/or an annual balance sheet total
not exceeding EUR 43 million.4
An entity is considered to be engaged in an ‘economic activity’, if it proves to be
involved in any form of trade or activity done for remuneration or pecuniary interest
on the market. Thus, in general, any activity consisting in (directly or indirectly)
offering goods or services on a given market is an economic activity.
The following will NOT be considered economic activities:
− activities which do not entail (directly or indirectly) some sort of pecuniary
offset or
− activities for which there is no given/direct (or indirect) market or
− activities for which the income generated is not distinct from the personal
income of the entity’s members or shareholders.
4 The SME ceilings must be calculated by including the headcount of staff, the balance sheet total and the
turnover data of all relevant direct and indirect partner and linked enterprises in accordance with
Articles 3 to 6 of the Annex to the EU SME Recommendation 2003/361.
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
This status is self-declared. For calls where the SME status has an impact on eligibility
or funding (higher funding rate, etc), participants must go through a self-assessment
wizard.
Two-year rule — In accordance with Article 4.2 of the SME Recommendation, the SME
status depends on the ceilings for two consecutive accounting periods. Headcount and
turnover must stay below the ceilings for two accounting periods to obtain the SME
status; conversely, the status will be lost if they rise above the ceilings for two
consecutive periods.
Since the SME self-assessment looks at the information for only one accounting
period (the last one), the SME self-assessment result may be flawed. Participants that
were below the ceiling the year before, must contact the Central Validation Service
via the Participant Register in order to request a formal validation. This validation will
then take into account the two accounting periods.
The two-year rule does not apply for changes due to a merger or acquisition.
Enterprises that are subject to a change in ownership need to be assessed on the
basis of their shareholder structure at the time of the transaction. If the aggregated
headcount and financial data of the new structure exceed the SME ceilings, the SME
status is lost immediately from the date of the transaction5.
Participants whose SME status changes after registration must update their data in
the Participant Register. This is important not only for eligibility checks in grant
applications, but also for statistical purposes.
Specific cases
❖ Newly established enterprises (e.g. start-up companies) that do not yet have
closed accounts or companies without economic activity but expecting to enter
soon into the market — May also qualify as SMEs, as long as they are able to provide
a ‘bona fide estimate’ (in the form of a business plan) covering the period necessary
for the entity to generate turnover.
❖ Enterprises without turnover whose activity implies a long time-to market
— Are allowed to demonstrate that they are engaged in an economic activity by
showing the investments made and the likely expected return.
Middle-capitalisation enterprise (Mid-cap)
'Middle-capitalisation enterprise’ means an enterprise that is:
− not a micro-, small- or medium-sized enterprise (SME) under the EU SME
Recommendation 2003/361
and
− employing up to 3 000 persons6 , where the headcount of staff, including all
relevant direct and indirect partner and linked enterprises, is calculated in
accordance with Article 3 to 6 of the Annex to the Recommendation.
This status is self-declared. For calls where the mid-cap status has an impact on
eligibility or funding (higher funding rate, etc.), participants must go through the SME
5 See Recital 9 of Recommendation No, 2003/361/EC and the User Guide to the SME Definition (p. 14).
6 Expressed in ‘annual working units’ as defined in Article 5 of the Annex of EU recommendation
2003/361.
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
self-assessment wizard to make sure that they do not fall under the definition of SME,
and then to self-declare that the number of employees does not exceed 3 000
persons.
Non-governmental organisation (NGO)
‘Non-governmental organisations’ are organisations which are voluntary, independent
from government and non-profit, and which are not a political party or trade union.
This status is self-declared. Self-declarations will be accepted only by private entities,
which have been validated as ‘non-profit’.
Civil society organisation (CSO)
‘Civil society organisations’ are organisations from the ‘third sector’ of society, distinct
from government and business (i.e. private for profit entities).
This status is self-declared. Self-declarations will normally be accepted only by private
entities, which have been validated as ‘non-profit’.
International organisation (IO)
‘International organisation’ means an intergovernmental organisation (other than the
EU) established under international public law, including specialised entities — with or
without legal personality — set up by international organisations.
This status is systematically checked against supporting documents and validated by
the Central Validation Service.
For some EU funding programmes there are moreover specific subtypes of
international organisations:
− ‘international organisations of European interest for H2020 (H2020 IOEI)’, i.e.
international organisations with a majority of members that are EU Member
States or H2020 associated countries and whose main objective is promoting
scientific and technological cooperation in Europe
− ‘international European research organisations for Horizon Europe (HE IERO)’,
i.e. international organisations with a majority of members that are EU
Member States or Horizon Europe associated countries and whose main
objective is promoting scientific and technological cooperation in Europe
− ‘international organisations of European interest for Digital Europe (DEP IOEI)’,
i.e. international organisations with a majority of members that are EU
Member States or whose headquarters are in an EU Member State.
The H2020 IOEI subtype status is systematically checked against supporting
documents and validated by the Central Validation Service.
The HE IERO and DEP IOEI subtype statuses are self-declared. In the future, for calls
where the HE IERO and DEP IOEI statuses have an impact on eligibility or funding,
participants will also be asked to go through a self-assessment wizard.
Specific cases
❖ Entities set up as distinct bodies by an international organisation with a
special mission but which do not have explicit legal personality — Can be validated
as with legal personality, if they meet any of the following criteria:
− they have treaty-making capacity or
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
− they have capacity to act at international level independently from the
organisation that set them up (i.e. capacity to undertake legal obligations).
If such entities do not meet one of the above criteria, they can exceptionally be
validated as without legal personality (see section 2.1.3 above).
Research organisation
‘Research organisation’ means an entity that:
− is established as non-profit organisation as described above
and
− carries out research and/or technological development as its main objective.
The following are NOT considered research activities:
− supporting or financing research activities carried out by other entities
− promoting, managing or coordinating research activities.
Only entities that have research and/or development as their main objective can
qualify as research organisations. By contrast, entities that have research and/or
development as ancillary activities (even if regular and substantial, e.g. in museums
or hospitals) do not qualify as ‘research organisations’.
This status is self-declared. Self-declarations will be accepted only by entities, which
have been validated as ‘non-profit’.
Secondary or higher education establishment
‘Secondary or higher education establishment’ means an entity that is recognised as
such by its national education system and is able to deliver diplomas recognised by
the State.
It can be a public body or a private entity (see above). The national accreditation as a
secondary/higher education establishment is not sufficient to consider the entity as a
public body.
This status is self-declared.