2.2.2 List of documents and information
The participants will be asked to submit the following documents and information:
1. Signed legal entity identification form7:
− Natural Person Form: in English
− Private Legal Entity Form: in English
− Public Legal Entity Form: in English.
2. Official VAT document or — if the entity is not registered for VAT — the proof of
VAT exemption, not older than one (1) year.
For the specific legal statuses, participants will be asked to submit the following
additional documents:
Status Documents to be submitted
Private entity A valid registration extract not older than one (1) year.
Documents older than one year may be accepted if valid for a
(including SME and mid-cap)
certain period of time expressly indicated in the same
document (e.g. valid for two years) and if submitted via the
Participant Register within this period of time.
Public body Copy of the act, law, decree or decision that established the
entity as a public body (or, if this does not exist, any other
official legal document that proves this).
Natural person Integral copy (legible) of valid identity card or passport (e.g. in
case of identity card, both sides must be provided).
7 Available at https://commission.europa.eu/publications/legal-entities_en.
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Entities without legal personality Copy of an official document attesting that the representatives
of the entity have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on
its behalf.
Copy of an official document attesting that the entity has the
same operational and financial viability as that of a legal entity:
i.e.
1. a document showing patrimony/assets/capital that
are separated and different from those of the
members/owners of the entity, and
2. a copy of the rules providing that creditors can rely
on this patrimony/assets/capital and — in case of
liquidation/insolvency — are reimbursed before the
patrimony/assets/capital are divided between the
owners/members.
Non-profit Copy of an official document attesting that the entity is non-
profit by its legal form or by its legal purpose, or that it has a
legal or statutory obligation not to distribute profits to
shareholders or individual members.
The certificate of tax exemption is only an indication of the
non-profit status and will therefore be assessed together with
other elements.
Small or medium sized enterprise (SME) The following documents must be provided for the participant
and mid-caps and for its linked and partner entities (in accordance with
Articles 3 to 6 of the Annex to the EU SME Recommendation
(— if expressly requested by the Central
2003/361):
Validation Service)
1. graph showing the complete ownership structure,
including all direct and indirect shareholders
2. proof of the direct and indirect shareholders/owners
and their respective percentage of interest and voting
rights
3. approved financial statements for the most recent
closed accounting period, including:
− balance sheet statement
− profit and loss account, clearly indicating the
amount of annual turnover from sales of goods
and services
− annexes to these documents and/or
accompanying notes, indicating (i) staff head
count and (ii) any equity participations in other
companies/downstream organisations with
exact percentage of the shares and voting rights
held. If the annexes/notes to the financial
statements do not contain the requested
information, other documents can be provided
that contain equivalent data (such as headcount
reports for social security purposes, extracts from
HR records certifying headcount, etc); in
exceptional cases, self-declarations can be
accepted
4. documents explaining the mechanisms of ownership
and control, corporate governance and decision-
making rules (e.g. statutes/articles of association and
shareholders’ agreements; memorandum of
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
understanding among shareholders, internal corporate
governance rules, etc)
Sworn or solemn statements before a judicial or
administrative authority, notary or public officer cannot replace
the above listed documents as proof of the SME or mid-cap
status.
The following documents must be submitted in the below
specific cases:
❖ Newly established enterprises (e.g. start-up companies) that
do not yet have closed accounts — Instead of approved
financial statements, a self-declaration must be provided,
including a bona fide estimate (in the form of a business plan)
for the entire period (financial years) necessary for the entity to
generate turnover.
❖ Enterprises without turnover whose activity implies a long
time-to market — In addition to the approved financial
statements, a self-declaration must be provided, including a
bona fide estimate (in the form of a business plan) for the
entire period (financial years) necessary to generate turnover,
including a declaration of the investment made and the likely
expected return (to demonstrate that, despite the lack of
turnover, the enterprise is engaged in an economic activity).
❖ Entities owned directly or indirectly by natural persons —
Self-declaration on the natural person(s) engagement in
economic activity and possible participations in other entities
must be provided. The template for the self-declaration will be
provided to participants during the validation process if specific
cases of ownership by natural persons are identified.
International organisation Copy of the international treaty creating the organisation under
international public law.
Research organisation Copy of an official document attesting research or technological
development as the main objective of the entity.
(— if expressly requested by the Central
Validation Service)
Secondary or higher education Copy of an official document attesting that the entity is
establishment recognised as ‘secondary or higher education establishment’ by
the national education system and is entitled to deliver
(— if expressly requested by the Central
diplomas recognized by the State.
Validation Service)
For other categories such as NGO, Civil Society Organisation, etc no supporting
documents are needed (unless exceptionally requested by the Central Validation
Service).