2.4.2 Corrections of validations
If a validation turns out to beincorrect (through an audit, ex-post check, investigation
or other means), it will be corrected by the Central Validation Service. The correction
will be registered with effect back to the effective date of the initial validation.
If the error is attributable to the Central Validation Service and its correction implies
disadvantages for the participant, the retroactive effect may exceptionally be waived,
if duly justified and in line with the principles of sound financial management and
proportionality.
If the error was the fault of the participant (intentional or unintentional), its
participation in on-going grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements, etc
may be terminated and undue amounts paid may be recovered. Moreover, the
participant may be fined and excluded from future EU funding (grants, procurements,
prizes, contribution agreements, etc; see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial
Regulation). In addition, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may be informed.
2.5 Ex-post verifications carried out by the EU — Irregularities and/or false
declarations
The EU services reserve the right to carry out — at any moment — checks, reviews,
audits or investigations.
If they find out that a participant did not meet the criteria for being validated or for
being validated with a specific legal status (e.g. due to false declarations), the
modification of the validation will be registered with retroactive effect back to the
effective date of the validation.
If in the meantime the participant already received EU grants, procurements, prizes,
contribution agreements, etc, their participation may be terminated/withdrawn and
undue amounts paid will be recovered.
In case of irregularities or false declarations, participants may moreover be fined and
excluded from future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc; see Articles 135 to 146 of the Financial Regulation).
In addition, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may be informed.