3.2 List of documents and information
For the validation of the LEAR appointment, the scanned version of the following
documents must be uploaded by the participant in the Participant Register:
1. LEAR appointment letter* (specifying the LEAR roles & duties and including the
declaration of consent to the Funding & Tenders Portal Terms and
Conditions*), completed, dated and signed by the legal representative and the
LEAR
2. Integral copy of an official, valid proof of identity (ID-card, passport, with
photo and signature) of:
− the legal representative and
− the appointed representative (LEAR)
3. Document(s) proving that the legal representative(s) appointing the LEAR is
empowered as such, which must:
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
− clearly indicate the role/function within the organisation as legal
representative
− identify and appoint this person (by indicating their personal data) for
that role.
The originals must be kept on file for checks, reviews, audits or investigations (which
can be required by the EU services at any time). They must not be sent to the Central
Validation Service.
After receiving the above-listed documents (and after the PIC has been validated),
the LEAR appointment will be validated in the Participant Register.
For a detailed description of the LEAR appointment process, see the Online Manual*
and the Funding & Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions*.
Proof of identity
‘Identity documents’ are those issued by national authorities and recognized by
national law as valid proof of identity. Identity documents can not be replaced by any
other means of proof. The EU services cannot waive this requirement under any
circumstances.
Examples of identity documents accepted are ID cards and passports. Driving licenses
are also accepted, as long as they are considered as valid proof of identity under the
applicable national law of the entity concerned.
Identity documents must be valid (not expired) at the time of the LEAR appointment.
An integral copy of the document must be provided (e.g. in most countries both sides
of the identity card must be provided).
Identity documents in which some parts/elements, including the photo, have been
deleted/erased/covered (e.g. with black marker) cannot be accepted.
Specific cases
❖ Service cards and badges issued by the participant — Cannot replace identity
documents (even if the participant is a public body) and therefore cannot be accepted
as proof of identity.
❖ Print-outs from the ID electronic chip — Cannot be accepted either.
Signatures
The LEAR documents must be signed by persons who are legal representatives of the
participant.
The names of both legal representative and LEAR in the LEAR documents must
correspond to those indicated in their official identity documents. LEAR documents
signed with acronyms/nick names/etc that do not correspond to the names indicated
in the identity documents will not be accepted.
Signatures can be either handwritten signatures or qualified electronic signatures
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
within the meaning of Article 3(12) of Regulation 910/20148. For the latter, the
Central Validation Service will verify that the signature is based on a valid qualified
certificate and was created by a secure creation device. See here for the list of
accepted trust service providers: eIDAS Dashboard (europa.eu).
Specific cases
❖ Internal requirements (e.g. joint signature of more than one person required to
legally engage the entity, foreseen by law, act of establishment, statutes, internal
rules, etc) — In case of internal requirements, the participant is fully responsible for
ensuring compliance (e.g. through an internal process ensuring that the single
signature on the LEAR documents is made only after all the internal requirements on
joint signature are fulfilled).
❖ Limitations — The Central Validation Service will take into account limitations to
represent the entity only if these limitations are explicitly mentioned in the
documents submitted to prove the empowerment of the legal representative (e.g.
limitation in the excerpts of the company registry).
Documents proving the empowerment of the legal representative
The document(s) proving the empowerment must identify:
− the role/function of legal representative within the entity
− the name and appointment of the person (by indicating their personal data) for
that role.
This can be found in a single document (in case the official appointment also specifies
the powers/tasks related to the appointment) or in several documents combined (e.g.
the official act of appointment and the organisational document, such as act of
establishment, statutes, articles of association, etc, in which the powers/tasks related
to the role are identified).
The documents must be valid (not expired) at the time when the LEAR is appointed.
The documents proving the appointment of the legal representative are those
required/accepted under the applicable national law of the entity concerned. They
may vary depending on the country, the legal form and status:
− law/decree/official act/official gazette in case of public entities
− copy of the treaty in case of international organisations
− decision of assembly, official documents from the council of administration,
executive committee or directors board, excerpts of the company registry in
case of private entities.
A declaration of honour can be accepted only in exceptional, duly justified cases
where none of the above exists.
Concerning the language of such documents and participant's responsibilities
concerning translations, see section 2.2.1.
8 Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on
electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market (OJ L 257,
28.8.2014, p. 73).
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Specific cases
❖ Participants who are natural persons — Do not need to prove their
empowerment, but still need to send the supporting documents listed above. The
documents should be signed by the natural person alone. A copy of the ID documents
of the natural person must also be included.
❖ Deputising persons — In case of temporary absence of the legal
representative(s) or their impossibility to sign, other persons empowered to act as
legal representatives (i.e. deputising persons) are accepted as legal representatives
by default. The reason for the temporary absence/impossibility and the legitimation of
the deputy will not be checked by the Central Validation Service and therefore
remains under the full responsibility of the participant (see also above under ‘internal
requirements’).
❖ Ministries — For ministries, Ministers are considered legal representatives by
default and there is no need to provide the legal documents proving their
empowerment.
In addition to the Minister's role, the following roles/functions are considered as legal
representatives by default, without any further verification of the legal documents
proving their empowerment:
− Deputy Minister
− State/General Secretary and their deputies
− Directors of certain specific horizontal sectors/departments/directions, namely
'legal', 'financial','European or international relationships'.
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the ministry, the evidence may be
taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the organisational chart
published on the official website of the ministry).
Except if otherwise provided in the applicable rules (law/decree/act governing the
organisation of the ministry), other roles such as ‘Director’/‘Had of Department’/‘Head
of Unit’, etc will be considered as having limited tasks and powers (relating only to
the directorate/department/unit’s policies) and, therefore, not entitled to represent
and engage the ministry as a whole.
For Ministers, the ID document can be exceptionally replaced by a badge or service
card (issued by the ministry). This exception applies only to the person of the
‘Minister’ and cannot be extended to other representatives (such as State Secretaries,
Deputy Ministers or Directors/Head of Departments); these persons are not exempted
from the obligation to provide an ID document.
❖ Public bodies and governmental entities — For public bodies and other
state/governmental entities, including executive services at central/regional/local
level, the highest-ranked person (e.g. Director-General, President, Mayor, etc) will be
recognized as legal representative by default.
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the entity, the evidence may be
taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the organisational chart
published on the official website).
❖ International organisations — For international organisations, the highest-
ranked person (e.g. Secretary, Secretary-General) will be recognised as legal
representative by default.
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the international organisation, the
evidence may also be taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the
organisational chart published on the official website of the international
organisation).
❖ Universities and higher education establishments — For universities and
other higher education establishments (e.g. colleges, institutes, etc), the following
roles/functions are recognised as legal representative by default, without any further
verification of their powers:
− Rector and Vice-Rector
− President and Vice-President
− Chancellor and Vice Chancellor.
In case of faculties with their own legal personality (and thus independently
validated), the Dean and Vice-Dean can also act as legal representatives by default.
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the university/higher education
establishment/faculty, the evidence may also be taken from other appropriate
sources (e.g. the organisational chart published on the official internet-site of the
university/faculty).