EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the international organisation, the
evidence may also be taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the
organisational chart published on the official website of the international
organisation).
❖ Universities and higher education establishments — For universities and
other higher education establishments (e.g. colleges, institutes, etc), the following
roles/functions are recognised as legal representative by default, without any further
verification of their powers:
− Rector and Vice-Rector
− President and Vice-President
− Chancellor and Vice Chancellor.
In case of faculties with their own legal personality (and thus independently
validated), the Dean and Vice-Dean can also act as legal representatives by default.
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the university/higher education
establishment/faculty, the evidence may also be taken from other appropriate
sources (e.g. the organisational chart published on the official internet-site of the
university/faculty).
3.3 LEAR replacement
A LEAR replacement is equivalent to a new LEAR appointment. For the replacement of
an already validated LEAR, participants must submit the same type of documents and
the Central Validation Service will follow the procedure for the validation of LEAR
appointment (see above).
3.4 Ex-post verifications carried out by the EU — Irregularities and/or false
declarations
The EU services reserve the right to carry out — at any moment — checks, reviews,
audits or investigations.
If it is found out that a participant did not respect the obligation to keep the original
documents or committed other irregularities, appropriate measures will be taken.
If in the meantime the participant already received EU grants, procurements, or
contribution agreements, their participation may be terminated and undue amounts
paid will be recovered.
In case of irregularities or false declarations, participants may moreover be fined and
excluded from future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc; see Articles 135 to 146 of the Financial Regulation).
In addition, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may be informed.