4.2.2 List of documents and information
The participants will be asked to submit the following documents and information:
1. Profit and loss account — approved by the management of the entity, clearly
indicating the amounts of turnover from sales of goods and services, operating
income, staff, depreciation, amortization costs, net operating result and
interest expenses. If this information is not indicated in the profit and loss
account or in the explanatory notes it must be provided in the form of a self-
declaration.
2. Balance sheet statement — approved by the management, clearly indicating
the nature and the maturity (i.e. below or above one year) of receivables and
other current assets, grants, provisions and debts. If this information is not
indicated in the balance sheet or in the explanatory notes it must be provided
in the form of a self-declaration.
3. Explanatory notes and/or annexes that form part of the above financial
statements (if available).
4. External audit report or self-declaration
Participants requesting a grant amount of above 750 000 EUR (for action
grants) or above 100 000 EUR (for operating grants) must provide:
− an statutory audit report issued by an approved/certified external
auditor if:
− such a report is available or
− a statutory audit is required under EU or national law
or
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
− a declaration on the validity of the accounts* (self-declaration), signed
by the legal representative of the entity, which certifies the validity of
the accounts.
The documents provided must cover the last two closed financial years. The most
recent year must have been closed within the last 18 months.
Exceptions are allowed for:
− start-up companies without closed annual accounts which provide
prospective data (business plan) for one year only
− recently created entities which have closed annual accounts for one year
only. These entities will be assessed based on the documents for the sole
closed financial year
A single financial document containing comparative data of the annual accounts of
both years under assessment will be accepted. The same applies to an external audit
report covering the two financial years.
If some (or all) of the documents have already been provided for the financial years
in question (i.e. uploaded in the Participant Register), the participant does not need
to submit them again.
The audit report must include:
− the clear mandate and scope of the audit
− the responsibilities of the management and the auditor
− the way in which the audit is carried out
− the auditor’s opinion, including a reasonable assurance that the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.
All documents must be provided simultaneously (profit and loss account, balance
sheet, audit report/self-declaration, etc).
No audit report/self-declaration is needed for entities participating in tender
procedures, for natural persons and entities without closed accounts.
Specific cases
❖ Subsidiaries without own financial statements — Subsidiaries which do not
prepare their own financial statements may provide the consolidated accounts and
the audit report/self-declaration of the parent company/group they belong to under
the following conditions:
− the entity is exempt under national law from statutory audits
− only consolidated statements of the parent company/group the entity belongs
to are available
and
− the parent company assumes joint liability for all the debts of the entity (— all
conditions must be fulfilled).
In such cases, participants will be requested to provide additional documents to prove
these conditions.
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
❖ Parent companies — Parent companies which are exempt under national law
from publishing individual (i.e. non-consolidated) financial statements will be
requested to provide a dated and signed by the management simplified summary of
their non-consolidated profit and loss statement and balance sheet.
These simplified accounts must respect either the minimum reporting requirements
set out in the national accounting law or Annexes III, IV, V and VI of Directive
2013/349 (for the balance sheet, aggregate information limited to the headings
preceded by letters and roman numerals is sufficient).
If the provided financial information is not sufficiently clear, the Central Validation
Service may contact participants for further clarifications.
❖ Newly established enterprises that have not yet closed accounts — Must
provide estimated financial data (i.e. a business plan or a similar document including
financial projections on current and non-current assets, own capital, current and non-
current liabilities, turnover, operating and financial income and charges).
The financial data must respect either the minimum reporting requirements set out in
the national accounting law or to Annexes III, IV, V and VI of EU Directive 2013/34
(for the balance sheet, aggregate information limited to the headings preceded by
letters and roman numerals is sufficient).
❖ Natural persons engaged in an economic activity who do not prepare financial
statements in relation to their business activities — Are requested to provide:
− the annual income tax declaration containing details on the revenues and
expenses from business activity
− a signed declaration of patrimony, including:
− fixed patrimony (e.g. land, tenement, hereditament, medium/long-term
deposits (more than one year), stock options that cannot be exercised
within one year)
− current patrimony (e.g. available cash, savings, short-term deposits
(maximum of one year), stock-options that can be exercised within one
year)
and
− a signed declaration of debts, which must contain all liabilities (with dates and
figures), broken down in short-term debts (of maximum one year) and
medium/long-term debts (of more than one year).
The Central Validation Service may request additional evidence or information if
needed.
❖ Entities operating cash-based accounting — If the available financial
documents do not contain a profit and loss account and a balance sheet but are
limited to a cash flow statement and/or do not contain sufficient information10,
9 Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual
financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of
undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and
repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (OJ L 182, 29.6.2013, p. 19–76).
10 E.g. missing information on the nature of revenues, expenses or equity, nature and liquidity of
receivables and assets, maturity of debts etc.
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
declarations signed by the authorised legal representative of the entity may be
accepted, if they provide:
− information on fixed and current assets: buildings, equipment, inventory, cash,
short/long term11 deposits, short/long term receivables, sort/long term
liabilities, grants and equity/sources of funding, etc
− information on revenues and expenses, such as turnover from sales of goods
and services, operating income, staff expenses depreciation/amortisation
costs, interest expenses, etc.
In addition, it is recommended to provide any available evidence supporting the
declared amounts (e.g. bank statements confirming the available balance at
accounting closure date, etc).
The Central Validation Service may request additional evidence or information if
needed.
❖ Entities covered by a guarantor — Entities that are covered by a full financial
guarantee of another legal entity (i.e. guarantor) may submit the financial data of the
guarantor, provided that it is a full guarantee (i.e. the guarantor has assumed full
joint liability for all debts). Ad-hoc guarantees (covering, for instance, only the
participation in EU projects) cannot be accepted.
Participants that would like to have the financial capacity of their guarantor
assessed, must first contact the service in charge of their application for approval of
the guarantee. In case of approval, the service in charge will request the Central
Validation Service to proceed with the assessment of the guarantor.