4.4 Modification of the assessment
In case of disagreement with the assessment, the participant may contact the Central
Validation Service by sending additional justifications via Participant Register
message. The subject of the message should be clearly labelled as related to the
financial assessment (not PIC validation, LEAR assessment or other).
The Central Validation Service will carry out a re-assessment on the basis of the
additional documents.
4.5 Ex-post verifications carried out by the EU — Irregularities and/or false
declarations
The EU services reserve the right to carry out — at any moment — checks, reviews,
audits or investigations.
If it is found out that a participant made false declarations, their status may be
changed.
If in the meantime the participant already received EU grants or procurements, their
participation may be terminated and undue amounts paid will be recovered.
In case of irregularities or false declarations, participants may moreover be fined and
excluded from future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc; see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial Regulation).
In addition, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may be informed.
5. Ownership control assessment
5.1 Ownership control assessment: Criteria and conditions
For funding programmes which have restricted calls in which only participants which
are directly or indirectly controlled by EU Member States or by nationals of EU
Member States (or by entities or nationals of specified eligible countries) are eligible,
the Central Validation Service will also handle the ownership control assessment
analysis.
The ownership control assessment must in principle be done for each new grant,
procurement or contribution agreement (— unless the participant already has a valid
ownership control assessment in the system performed by the Central Validation
Service that is not older than 18 months).
Moreover, the ownership control may be assessed ad hoc if there are grounds
justifying a new assessment, like for example:
− indication of third country control from other sources
− indication of ownership control changes after the initial assessment.