5.2.2 List of documents and information
The participants will be asked to submit the following documents and information:
1. Graph visualising the complete ownership structure/chain of control, including
all ownership layers/chain of control until the ultimate owners.
2. Proof of the direct and indirect shareholders/owners and their respective
percentage of interest and voting rights, for instance commercial registry
extracts, articles of association/incorporation documents/memorandum of
association/company’s shareholders/members/partners book/registry extract,
etc with the exact distribution of shares/voting rights, i.e. name of
shareholders/members/partners and their percentage of interest andvoting
rights, as well as information on their place of establishment (in case of legal
entity) or nationality (in case of natural persons).
3. Statutes, articles of association, shareholders’/partnership agreements,
memorandum of understanding among shareholders, investment agreements
between shareholders and other relevant documents regarding the decision-
making procedures within the legal entity and the related rights of the
shareholders/members/partners.
4. Documents establishing/describing the decision-making bodies, rules regarding
election, appointment, nomination, dismissal and tenure of members, and
decision-making procedures (e.g. articles of association, bylaws, reports on
corporate governance, internal corporate governance rules, minutes of board
meetings, etc).
5. For participants that are listed companies, subsidiaries or controlled by a listed
company: report/minutes of the last three shareholders meetings, together
with the attendance list identifying the present/represented shareholders and
their respective votes.
6. Cooperation agreements with customers or suppliers, when they could confer
control over the participant — if expressly requested by the Central Validation
Service.
7. For shareholders/owners that provide financial contributions: supporting
documents (loans, by-laws, etc) that justify the financial contribution;
documents showing the link between the shareholder/owner and the entity
providing the financing — if expressly requested by the Central Validation
Service.
8. Information about any other means, process or links that could ultimately
confer control to a non-EU country or non-EU country entity.
9. Copy of ID card(s) or passport(s) indicating the nationality of the ultimate
owner(s).
The same documents and information must be provided for each intermediate
controlling entity, up to the ultimate owners. The supporting documents must
demonstrate the complete ownership structure, including all layers of ownership and
non-controlling entities.
EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Guarantees for non-EU controlled entities (if allowed by the call conditions and
required by the EU service in charge) are not part of the ownership control
assessment and must therefore be submitted directly to the EU service in charge of
the grant/tender, in accordance with the specific programme rules.