Documents proving the empowerment of the legal representative

The document(s) proving the empowerment must identify:

— the role/function of legal representative within the entity — the name and appointment of the person (by indicating their personal data) for that role.

This can be found in a single document (in case the official appointment also specifies the powers/tasks related to the appointment) or in several documents combined (e.g. the official act of appointment and the organisational document, such as act of establishment, statutes, articles of association, etc, in which the powers/tasks related to the role are identified).

The documents must be valid (not expired) at the time when the LEAR is appointed.

The documents proving the appointment of the legal representative are those required/accepted under the applicable national law of the entity concerned. They may vary depending on the country, the legal form and status:

— law/decree/official act/official gazette in case of public entities — copy of the treaty in case of international organisations — decision of assembly, official documents from the council of administration, executive committee or directors board, excerpts of the company registry in case of private entities.

— law/decree/official act/official gazette in case of public entities

A declaration of honour can be accepted only in exceptional, duly justified cases where none of the above exists.

Concerning the language of such documents and _ participant's responsibilities concerning translations, see section 2.2.1.

Specific cases

« Participants who are natural persons — Do not need to prove their empowerment, but still need to send the supporting documents listed above. The documents should be signed by the natural person alone. A copy of the ID documents of the natural person must also be included.

« Deputising persons — In case of temporary absence of the _ legal representative(s) or their impossibility to sign, other persons empowered to act as legal representatives (i.e. deputising persons) are accepted as legal representatives by default. The reason for the temporary absence/impossibility and the legitimation of the deputy will not be checked by the Central Validation Service and therefore remains under the full responsibility of the participant (see also above under ‘internal requirements’).

«+ Ministries — For ministries, Ministers are considered legal representatives by default and there is no need to provide the legal documents proving their empowerment.

In addition to the Minister's role, the following roles/functions are considered as legal representatives by default, without any further verification of the legal documents proving their empowerment:

— Deputy Minister

— State/General Secretary and their deputies

— Directors of certain specific horizontal sectors/departments/directions, namely ‘legal’, 'financial','European or international relationships’.

If the official act of appointment is not provided by the ministry, the evidence may be taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the organisational chart published on the official website of the ministry).

Except if otherwise provided in the applicable rules (law/decree/act governing the organisation of the ministry), other roles such as ‘Director’/‘Had of Department’/‘Head of Unit’, etc will be considered as having limited tasks and powers (relating only to the directorate/department/unit’s policies) and, therefore, not entitled to represent and engage the ministry as a whole.

For Ministers, the ID document can be exceptionally replaced by a badge or service card (issued by the ministry). This exception applies only to the person of the ‘Minister’ and cannot be extended to other representatives (such as State Secretaries, Deputy Ministers or Directors/Head of Departments); these persons are not exempted from the obligation to provide an ID document.

* Public bodies and governmental entities — For public bodies and other state/governmental entities, including executive services at central/regional/local level, the highest-ranked person (e.g. Director-General, President, Mayor, etc) will be recognized as legal representative by default.

If the official act of appointment is not provided by the entity, the evidence may be taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the organisational chart published on the official website).

* International organisations — For international organisations, the highest- ranked person (e.g. Secretary, Secretary-General) will be recognised as legal representative by default.

If the official act of appointment is not provided by the international organisation, the evidence may also be taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the organisational chart published on the _ official website of the _ international organisation).

* Universities and higher education establishments — For universities and other higher education establishments (e.g. colleges, institutes, etc), the following roles/functions are recognised as legal representative by defau/t, without any further verification of their powers:

— Rector and Vice-Rector — President and Vice-President — Chancellor and Vice Chancellor.

In case of faculties with their own legal personality (and thus independently validated), the Dean and Vice-Dean can also act as legal representatives by default.

If the official act of appointment is not provided by the university/higher education establishment/faculty, the evidence may also be taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. the organisational chart published on the official internet-site of the university/faculty).

