4. Financial capacity assessment

4.1 Financial capacity assessment: Criteria and conditions

In addition to the legal entity validation and LEAR appointment, the Central Validation Service also assists the EU services with the financial capacity assessment (required by the Financial Regulation for grants and procurements; not needed for prizes or contribution agreements).

The financial capacity assessment must in principle be done for each new application/tender (— unless the participant already has a valid financial capacity assessment performed by the Central Validation Service that is not older than 18 months).

Additional conditions depend on the type of procedure (grant or procurement), participant and grant amount (e.g. no financial capacity assessment is needed for public bodies in grant procedures, for Member State organisations, international organisations, persons in receipt of education support, persons most in need and in receipt of direct support; for low-value grants and low-value procurements). Additional exemptions are provided in some programmes for specific situations or types of participants.

Moreover, the financial capacity may be assessed ad hoc if there are justified grounds to doubt it, like for example:

— indication of weak/insufficient financial capacity from other sources — involvement in cases of serious administrative errors or fraud — pending legal procedures or judicial proceedings for serious administrative errors or fraud — attachment order or recovery order for an outstanding amount issued by an EU body on which the payment is significantly overdue — substantial findings in EU audits within the last 2 years that put in doubt the financial capacity.

The financial capacity is assessed on the basis of financial indicators that are in principle the same for all EU programmes.

The financial capacity assessment is normally done during grant preparation/tender evaluation but may also be done during implementation. If a participants’ financial capacity must be assessed, they will be contacted by the Central Validation Service through the Funding & Tenders Portal.

45 The role of the Central Validation Service is to prepare the financial capacity assessment (e.g. to collect and to analyse the financial documents). The final decision on the financial capacity will be taken later, and for each proposal/tender separately by the EU service in charge.