4.2 Documents and information to provide

4.2.1 General requirements and principles

The financial assessment is in principle based on documents submitted by the participant as scanned versions via the Participant Register. Originals should be kept on file for checks, reviews, audits or investigations (which can be required by the EU services at any time).

As a general rule, financial documents must be provided in their original language(s), as imposed by the legislation in the participant’s country of registration. For documents in EU languages, participants may be requested to submit an English free (unofficial) translation to facilitate the assessment. For documents in non-EU languages, a free translation in English is always mandatory and needs to be provided together with the original documents. In case of doubt, a certified/legal translation in English may be requested. If the participants have original documents in an EU

language which is not the official language of their country, they can nevertheless submit them (no need for a translation into the official language of the country). Some examples of such documents are: dated and signed annual management reports in English for a company listed on the stock exchange or having international shareholders or for the purpose of consolidation within a foreign group; dated and signed extracts from national registers that use English, etc.

The participants assume full responsibility for the content of the documents and the accuracy of the translations, as well as any information provided by other means (e.g. by Participant Register message, etc).

4 In case of false declarations (or intentional manipulation of a translation), the EU services may:

— withdraw or correct the financial assessment — terminate on-going grants and procurements (and recover any undue amounts) — impose financial penalties or administrative sanctions, including exclusion from future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements, etc; see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial Regulation) — inform the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).