RTS PO

 • How to complete your ethics self-assessment

Security scrutiny

In order to ensure that classified information (for EU classified information (EUCI), see Decision 2015/444) is protected from unauthorised disclosure and that security issues emerging from project activities are appropriately addressed, some EU programmes systematically provide for a security review procedure for applications that operate in security relevant contexts (e.g. European Defence Fund, Horizon Europe, Digital Europe).

The details and the scope of the security review depend on each programme. Some programmes, such as Horizon Europe and Digital Europe, have a more elaborated security review procedure which includes several steps depending on whether the topic under which a proposal is submitted is flagged by the Commission as security sensitive or not (see Horizon Europe Programme Guide).

The security scrutiny (which is the final step of the more elaborated security review) is essentially the same for all programmes: proposals must be cleared by the Security Scrutiny Group (composed of national security experts nominated in agreement with their national security authorities (NSAs)). The Security Scrutiny Group will determine the level of sensitivity of the application and check whether all security aspects are being handled appropriately. You will be informed about the result through your coordinator.

If the security scrutiny leads to requirements to be implemented before grant signature, you will need to take immediate action to comply. If the scrutiny leads to classification and additional requirements to be fulfilled during the project, this will be automatically reflected in the system (classification of existing deliverables, limited dissemination of existing deliverables due to security reasons, security aspect letter (SAL), security classification guide (SCG), appointment of project security officer, establishment of security advisory board, etc.). If the scrutiny shows that the project is too security sensitive, funding may have to be refused.