& Prefinancing guarantee (if required)

If the Granting Authority requires a prefinancing guarantee, you need to obtain this from a bank or approved financial institution (using the template available on Portal Reference Documents), send a scanned copy through Portal Formal Notifications (My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Launch new interaction with the EU > Formal Notification) and the original by registered post with proof of delivery to the mail address of the service responsible for your grant.

For more details, see AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 23.

& Submit grant preparation to the Granting Authority

& Assessment by the Granting Authority and finalisation of GA data

The Project Officer will enter the EU grant preparation data (GA options, etc) and check the data submitted by the consortium. If needed, they will send back the session to the consortium for changes/addition information (ping-pong).

Changes to consortium composition/project during grant preparation

4\ Please note that consortia/projects can be altered ONLY under exceptional circumstances, and ONLY if duly justified.

Nonetheless, there may be circumstances where you may need to change/adjust the consortium composition/project before grant signature (bankruptcy, merger/acquisition, loss of a key member of staff that is needed to carry out the project, etc).

In this case, your Coordinator should contact the EU Project Officer explain why and propose a solution (reassign tasks and budget within the consortium or to a new participant, adjustments to the project, etc).

If accepted, you may need to update the Grant Management System screens and upload a new Part B.

4\ Please note that the proposals may NOT be substantially changed and that all changed elements must comply with the call conditions for the call. Redistribution of tasks must be in line with the competences of the participants concerned and the quality of the project/consortium must be guaranteed.

If no acceptable solution is presented, we will request you to withdraw the proposal and terminate grant preparation.

