3.3.5 Continuous reporting on milestones & deliverables

During the project, you are expected to provide regular updates on the status of the project: the continuous reporting.

The continuous reporting includes:

 • progress In acnieving milestones  • deliverables  • updates to the publishable summary  • response to critical risks, publications, communications activities, IPRs  • programme-specific monitoring information (if required).

 • programme-specific monitoring information (if required).

Where? The Continuous Reporting Module is accessible through the link you receive at the beginning of the project.

Who? Milestones and deliverables should be submitted by each participant for their work.

What? You should report on milestones and deliverables in accordance with the schedule set out for them.

The Continuous Reporting Module also allows you to report on critical risks, prepare the summary for publication and the programme-specific information on indicators (e.g. Trainings, Gender, Open Data, etc — if available for your programme and type of action).

Milestones — Control points in the project that help to chart progress (kick-off meetings, steering committes, first-draft of a survey, prototype, etc). They may correspond to the completion of a key deliverable, which allows the next phase of the work to begin or is needed at intermediary points.

Deliverables — Outputs to be submitted to the EU (publication, leaflet, progress report, brochure, list, etc).

All this information is automatically compiled to create part A of the periodic Technical Report, at the moment this report is prepared (Locked for review).

At the beginning of the project, you will receive a notification (+ link) that the Continuous Reporting Module is activated and that you can contribute to it on an ongoing basis.

4\ Please note that you must provide a separate summary for each periodic report (just update the summary for the previous period).

The summary must be suitable for direct publication by the Granting Authority, especially:

 • bea stand-alone text — no references to other parts of the report, only to publicly available information.  • easily understandable by a general audience  • preferably not longer than 7,480 characters (roughly 2 pages)  • with no confidential/sensitive data

 • easily understandable by a general audience

 • preferably not longer than 7,480 characters (roughly 2 pages)

 • with no confidential/sensitive data

You can upload diagrams or photographs illustrating and promoting your project work (44 only as images and you must have cleared any rights of third parties advance).

You can also mention the websites used to promote the EU project (see section Communicating and promoting the project).

