Amount of the payment

The daily rate is EUR 450 for work including travel such as participating at evaluations, monitoring activites or meetings at the commission or beneficiary premises. This is calculated to the nearest half day (EUR 225) except in the following two cases:

 • for remote work carried out by evaluators, any work that you are specifically asked to carry out remotely will be paid in accordance with Article 4.1 of your contract.

 • you are covered by one of the exceptional situations for which a zero fee contract must be issued (e.g. for former EU staff in receipt of an allowance) or you requested that a zero fee contract be issued

The contract sets out the maximum total number of days of work (and amount) that you can be paid for. This is an upper ceiling. The actual amount that you will be paid is based on the actual task assigned and worked; this may be less than the maximum amount.

 • Please note that you will not receive payment for tasks that are not covered by the contract (or an amendment to it) and which are not specifically assigned to you, either via the relevant IT system, or in writing by us.

The reimbursement of travel expenses and payments of accommodation allowance and daily allowance (see below) are made on request and in accordance with the Commission Rules on the reimbursement of expenses of experts (see the annex of Commission Decision C(2007)5858).

If your contract includes activities involving travel, expenses are refunded for this travel - normally between the address indicated in the contract (the address registered in your expert profile) and the meeting venue indicated in Article 3.2 of the contract. If you exceptionally need to travel to or from a different location than the address in the contract, you need our explicit agreement prior to purchasing your tickets.

You should book your travel as soon as possible to keep costs reasonable, but you should NOT book your travel before your contract has been signed by both Parties.

Accommodation and daily allowances

We will also pay accommodation allowances and daily allowances:

