Award criteria

The award criteria to be applied by the evaluators are set for each programme in the call conditions .

Thresholds may vary according to the work programme. For two-stage submission schemes, thresholds and the maximum overall score may vary between the first and the second stage.

The diagram below depicts the main steps of the evaluation process and highlights at which stages the experts intervene

Before starting their work, experts are briefed on evaluation procedures (including remote evaluation), the topics of the relevant calls for proposals and the terms of their contracts. This briefing can be done in Brussels or remotely (e.g. web-streaming).

For each proposal, experts presents their evaluation results in an individual evaluation report (IER), explaining the evaluation scores. Expert evaluators also pre-screen each proposal (on the basis of the applicant's ethics self-assessment) to see if it raises ethical issues. All evaluation forms are completed online. This report can be completed and signed remotely or in Brussels.

In principle, proposals will be evaluated initially by at least three experts (in a number of cases, five or more). However, for the first stage in two-stage submission schemes and for low-value grants, only two experts may be involved.

~\ A consensus group is convened in order for all the experts who assessed the proposals in question to discuss the individual evaluation reports and agree on comments and scores.

The consensus group discussion is led by a moderator (normally an official from the concerned EU service), who seeks a consensus and ensures that proposals are evaluated in a fair manner and in line with the established criteria.

The consensus group discussion results in a consensus report (CR) _ including justifications of scores and dissenting views, if any. The moderator is responsible for ensuring that the consensus report reflects the consensus reached. The report is signed by the rapporteur and the experts evaluating the proposal discussed.

The discussion usually takes place in Brussels and includes experts who participated in the individual evaluation. It is also possible to convene a remote consensus group.

™ Panel review consists of reviewing all the proposals within a call, or part of a call, to:

 • ensure that the consensus groups have been consistent in their evaluations;

 • if necessary, propose a new set of marks or comments; and

 • if necessary, propose a new set of marks or comments; and  • resolve cases where a consensus could not be reached and a minority view was recorded in the consensus report.

Exceptionally, in some cases, justified by the specific call circumstances, the outcome of the consensus group will constitute the final result of the evaluation, and there will be no panel review. These cases will be signalled in the guidance documents.

The panel review is led by a panel chairperson (normally an official from the concerned EU service) who ensures fair and equal treatment of the proposals.

The panel review should result in a panel report which includes the evaluation summary report (ESR) for each proposal, a list of proposals passing all thresholds, along with a final score, (panel ranked list) and, where necessary, the panel's recommendations for priority order in the event of equal scores, using the procedure set out in the work programme. A rapporteur may be appointed to draft the panel report.

