Technical Support (TSI)

MFF 2014-2020

Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF) Civil Protection (UCPM) Consumer Programme COSME Defence and Industrial Development (EDIDP) European Statistics (ESP) Health (3HP) Hercule III Horizon 2020 (H2020) Internal Security Fund - Borders and Visa (ISFB)

Internal Security Fund — Police (ISFP) Justice (JUST) Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF) Pilot Projects and Preparatory Actions Promotion of Agricultural Products (AGRIP) Research Fund for Coal & Steel (RFCS) Rights, Equality and Citizenship (REC)

You can access calls and topics in your area of interest through the Portal Search funding & tenders page. This page allows you to search in the text of the call and topic titles, call and topic identifiers, topic description and keywords and tags. You can also filter using the quick search per topics related to specific EU priorities.

If you would like to receive updates on new calls, you can subscribe to the Funding Opportunities RSS feed.

The Search funding & tenders page also hosts calls for tenders (EU procurements) and prizes. It does NOT cover financial instruments (EU loans and venture capital) — these are normally managed through financial partners (banks), but the Portal homepage has a direct link to the Access to finance page on Europa.

Calls and topics

On the Portal most calls are divided into topics.

Call — Group of topics that are open in parallel and address the same policy domain.

Topic — Part of a call with one opening and closing date. The proposals submitted to the topic will be evaluated together and compete against each other.

The Search funding & tenders page will display the list of open topics; the name of the call they belong to is visible on the Topic page.

The Topic page contains all the information you need to have for your proposal (call conditions, legal framework and key documents, standard application form and other practical information you need to prepare your proposal). The Topic page also specifies the call deadline and contains a link to the Portal Submission System, through which you can submit your proposal. The Topic page also contains call and topic updates (changes or important information for the applicants).

Deadline for submission

A topic is considered open until the deadline for submission has passed (call deadline).

Each topic will specify deadlines and/or cut-off dates.